An 18-year-old brother was trying to decide what he wanted to do after high school.
He was raised in the truth, and in his heart he wanted to be a pioneer, but he also had
a scholarship to go to university and some other grants, and he had been accepted to attend.
He had many questions, how was he going to support himself, and much pressure from his
teachers and counselors to go to university? What decision would he make? Well, maybe many
of you young ones who are listening to this talk right now are facing that same decision,
or maybe you will be in a year or two. What path will you take? Well, now here's what we know.
Jehovah wants you to have not just a good life, not just an average life, he wants you to have an
awesome, wonderful life, both now during your youth, but really for your entire life. That's why
the Bible says, in Ecclesiastes, chapter 11 and verse 9, rejoice young man while you were young,
and let your heart be glad in the days of your youth. Well, many young people have found real joy
and peace by choosing a career in the full-time service, but now when we say full-time service,
what are we talking about? Well, full-time service is not just one thing. It actually includes many
things. It includes pioneering, maybe in your home congregation, or maybe in another area,
maybe in another city, state, province, even in another country. It might mean assisting with
theocratic construction projects, maybe building kingdom halls or assembly halls or building
remote translation offices or even working at building at Bethel facilities. And it also could
mean submitting an application for Bethel service and becoming a Bethelite. Really,
there are so many wonderful opportunities that are available for you, young ones, in full-time
service. But now here's a question. What challenges could prevent you from starting or continuing
on the path of full-time service? And more importantly, how can you overcome those challenges?
Well, let's talk about three obstacles. Here's the first one. It's financial concerns. How am I
going to support myself? Well, let's look at something that Jesus said in Matthew, chapter 6,
6, verse 33, Matthew 6, verse 33, Jesus said, keep on then seeking first the kingdom and his
righteousness, and all these other things will be added to you. Well, now, okay, it says all these
other things. What other things? What is Jesus talking about here? Well, to find out, when do we go
back up to verse 25? And let's read a little bit more of what Jesus was talking about when he said
those famous words, verse 25, on this account, I say to you, stop being anxious about your lives
as to what you will eat or what you will drink or about your bodies as to what you will wear.
Does not life mean more than food and the body than clothing? Now, after identifying, now,
we know what Jesus is talking about. He's talking about our necessities, food, shelter, clothing.
But now, look at the illustrations Jesus goes on to give now, beginning here in verse 26,
observe intently the birds of heaven. They do not so seed or reap or gather into storehouses,
yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth more than they are? Who of you by being
anxious can add one qubit to his life's man? Also, why are you anxious about clothing?
Take a lesson from the lilies of the field, how they grow, they do not toil, nor do they spin.
But I tell you that not even Solomon in all his glory was arrayed as one of these.
Now, if this is how God clothes the vegetation of the field that's here today and tomorrow is
thrown into the oven, will he not much rather cloth you, you with little faith? So, never be anxious
and say, what are we to eat or what are we to drink or what are we to wear for all these or the
things the nations are eagerly pursuing? Your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things.
Well, do you get the sense of this? Jesus was trying to reason that just as Jehovah provides
for all of his creation, he can provide for you too. We just need to develop our faith
that Jehovah will provide the things we need if we put his service first.
Well, does that mean that Jehovah is just going to drop into our lap everything that we need?
Well, no. Jehovah expects that we're going to use the things that he's given us to be able to
support ourselves. So, it's very wise when you're young to plan ahead so that you can obtain the
skills you need to be able to support yourself. Now, in some lands, it may be that as you're growing
up, you can learn a trade from your Father or from your mother or maybe even from another relative.
In other lands, you might be able while you're still in high school to take some vocational
courses that would help you to learn a skill or learn a trade. But here's the point.
We need to plan. So, ask yourself, what abilities and skills do I have that I could use to support
myself? A sister named Kelly had a very clear goal in mind of becoming a pioneer. So, what did she do?
Well, this is what she says. I had to choose something that would allow me to support myself in my
ministry. Kelly enrolled in a vocational program in her high school. And that helped her to achieve
her primary goal. Here's what she said. The full-time ministry was what I wanted to do. Everything
else was secondary. Well, how does Kelly feel now about the decision that she made? She says,
I feel my decision was the best one that I could have made. You young brothers and sisters,
you can overcome that challenge just by planning ahead and making sure that you have practical
skills you can use to support yourself. Here's the second obstacle. Pressure from others.
My relatives want me to focus on making money. Well, if that's the case, explain your spiritual goals
in a calm, respectful way. Colossians chapter four in verse six says, let your words always be
gracious, seasoned with salt. Well, we all know when we eat food with no salt, it doesn't taste very
good, doesn't it? You put a little salt on it, now it becomes delicious. So make sure that when
you speak to your relatives, you put a little salt on those words so that you can reason with them
and help them to see the wisdom of the decision that you want to make. Well, it could be your
relatives will not agree with you. But let's look at something that Jesus said here at Luke chapter
seven and verse 35. Jesus said all the same. Wisdom is proved righteous, or now if you look at the
footnote, it says, or is vindicated by all its children. Well, now what's the point? Well, sometimes
when people make a decision, we're not sure if it was the right one or not, but when the decision
works out well, when it leads to success, when when people see how happy you are and how successful
you are, the joy, the satisfaction you have, well, then what happens? Well, maybe your relatives
will see that your decision has been vindicated. It's been proved righteous by the way things have
turned out. Here's obstacle number three, unexpected challenges. I thought it was going to be
easier than this. Well, those unexpected challenges can be many. It could be just trying to get
used to new roommates dealing with personality challenges or even just coping with homesickness.
Here's the point. Don't give up. Notice what James said here in James chapter one.
James chapter one and verse four. Now you notice, as you look at verse two, James is talking about
trials and he's talking about how trials can have a positive effect on us, but now look what he says
in verse four, but let endurance complete its work so that you may be complete and sound in all
respects not lacking in anything. What's James trying to say? What's his point? Well, have you ever heard
the expression no pain, no gain? Well, if you want to reach a certain fitness goal or if you want to
be very good at playing a certain sport, no doubt you're going to have some aching muscles and no
doubt you're going to have some hurt pride along the way too. Maybe you won't be very good when you
first start, but what do you do? If you want to become good, if you want to reach your goal,
you can't give up. You have to keep trying. Well, the same could be said about reaching our
spiritual goals. You see, James mentions that trials often reveal our weaknesses. Maybe it's
some aspect of our personality that needs improvement or maybe it's something in our relationship
with Jehovah. Maybe we need greater faith. Maybe we need greater trust. If we endure even during periods
of trial and we refuse to give up, we become stronger. We become stronger in our spirituality and our
relationship with Jehovah, our love for him, our faith in him, our trust in him just continues to
grow. As James says, there in verse four, we become complete or sound in all respects,
not lacking in anything. So when those trials come and they will come, don't look for a quick way out.
Endure. Keep going. Don't give up. Seek advice from brothers and sisters who have successfully
coped with similar challenges and you too will be successful. In the following video,
notice how some full-time servants have found real peace despite those three obstacles,
financial concerns, pressure from others and unexpected challenges.
I pray to Jehovah, if it is your will, I would be happy to enter Pioneer Service.
But I had to work really hard to provide for the needs of my family,
because my father had died when he was 45 years old. The elder I talked to gave me advice not to
be picky on what kind of job I would have. He reminded me of Matthew 633 and told me not to be overly
anxious. Because of our good communication within the family, we were able to find solutions.
My resemblings realized that they also shared responsibility in providing for the needs of the family.
After one year of pioneering, I was encouraged to apply for Bethel Service. And now I am in Bethel.
I feel that Jehovah really cares for me, loves me and appreciates all my efforts.
Because they love me, my cousins pressured me to choose a secular career. If I went against their
wishes, it would hurt them and put a strain on our relationship. I was really anxious.
I wanted to show my trust in Jehovah by pioneering and give him an opportunity to show me that I
can be happy in his service. I tried to express my appreciation for my cousins by what I said and did
and showed them love. They realized that I have changed for the better. I show more concern for
others now. Now they understand that we have been learning good things and that we have a happier
and more meaningful life. I wanted to try serving where the need was great. When I first arrived,
I thought it was so cool being there. I had expected the poverty, but when I saw it hit home more
than what I had expected. So then I started to feel really homesick. But my brothers and sisters
I'd go to the Kingdom Hall and they were able to cope with the challenges that they were facing
because they had Jehovah in their life. So that, their example really helped me to see that my
circumstances don't need to change from attitude to change. Proverbs 15, 15 stood out to me
with having a cheerful heart and being able to have a continual feast no matter what my circumstances
are. And I found an article about that scripture and so from there I decided to ask myself how can
I use my situation and what I'm learning to help others and got to start helping with foreign
language group there. That whole experience just made my love for people grow so much and
definitely changed my life. Some of your non-witness family members might offer you secular or financial
advice. We know they mean well and they feel that they're giving you the best advice because they
love you. But young brothers and sisters, we are convinced that the blessings of full-time service
far outweigh any challenges that might go along with it. Just think of the experiences that we
heard in the video. Harley's choices allowed him to go to Bethel and helped him to feel that
Jehovah really loved him. Angel's choices took courage but those choices helped him to be more
concerned about other people and helped his relatives to see that he had made a good decision.
And Carly did not give up when the trials came. Instead she learned to love other people even more
and became a more powerful strong Christian. Brothers and sisters, why are we so convinced
that full-time service will lead you young ones to a wonderful life? Well it's because that's
the decision that so many of us made when we were young. Do you remember that 18-year-old young
brother who is trying to decide which path to take? Well that was me some years ago.
I'm so glad that with the help of Jehovah and my parents and other mature friends in the congregation,
I made the decision just like so many other brothers and sisters around the world to turn
down that scholarship to give up university and go directly into the full-time service.
That is a decision that I have never regretted. That is a decision that I will never regret.
Young people, Jehovah loves you. He wants you to have a wonderful, awesome life.
Choose the path of full-time service if you can. You will never regret it.
It will put you on a path that leads to joy and peace with our marvelous, wonderful God, Jehovah.